I worked in an office in the financial district.
I enjoyed everything about working there.
Passing these tall skyscrapers, institutions with big names,
in terms of what I wanted from life.
At that time it was great.
Spiritually it was not the best at all.
You have to make yourself stand out.
That really affected my personality.
I didn't even realise it at the time.
I was pioneering and I decided to apply for Bethel and was accepted.
And my assignment was to do cleaning.
And from my background that kind of work,
it was something that was looked down on.
It's not something you would choose to do.
I was used to an environment where,
if you did well, you could move to the next step
and you'd be recognised for it.
And this was the case for me,
that I derived so much value from these external things,
these privileges and being set apart from others.
I thrived on that commendation,
both at work and in the congregation.
So when you don't get it, then you feel lost a little bit.
Other brothers were getting more recognition.
And that just played in my head a little bit.
The spiritual environment in Bethel has taught me and is teaching me
that our value is nothing to do with the privileges that we enjoy.
When we feed off the recognition from men,
it's almost like we're chasing the next compliment or the next praise.
You can always feel like you're chasing happiness.
But switching my thinking to thinking about Jehovah's recognition,
it gives you more peace and it's more sustainable.
And it really helped me to see that,
no matter what circumstances I'm in,
I can be happy, I can be joyful.
He's been good-molding.
Sandy and I got married in 2003.
Sandy was pioneering back then and I was happy to support her.
Then we found out that we were expecting a baby,
and we were really excited.
I still was hoping that after I had the baby
that I would be able to continue pioneering,
that was the plan anyway.
We just thought to ourselves,
we can grow them up, they can serve Jehovah, go to Bethel,
all of the stuff that you want your child to do.
One day, very late on in the pregnancy,
I received a phone call from Sandy.
She was rushed into hospital for an emergency cesarean
and everything changed.
We're so glad that he made it through.
And thankfully, he survived.
Later on, we found out that he had
severe brain damage.
We had to learn how to operate medical machinery,
we had to learn what's the range was,
we had to learn so much stuff
that we'd never even had to think about before.
So I used to feel like
why was our path to get to the new world harder
than other brothers and sisters?
I felt isolated and lonely
because I felt that no one understood
what I was going through and what it felt like.
No one around me was in my situation.
We really enjoyed the assembly.
We'd sit near the front,
we could focus on what was going on,
and all of a sudden, Eden's born, we're at the back.
We're right at the back.
It was very, very hard to accept
that although I wanted to be somewhere
at a certain time spiritually,
it just wasn't going to happen
because I was in a completely different situation.
Eden now has a little sister, Angel,
who is also a blessing from Jehovah.
Although our goals in life changed,
and we might not be as a do as much as we used to do,
we know that Jehovah is really appreciative on
everything that we do.
And as a family, we've set a goal,
being out in the ministry together at least once a month.
It takes a lot to get Eden ready for his lot of preparation
and a lot of medication,
and there's a lot of hidden things
that the congregation don't see.
We know that Jehovah's seen us struggling in the evenings.
He's looking there at the sleepless night.
He can help you to cope,
to be happy with small blessings.
I don't do it every day,
but I try to write down what I'm grateful for,
what Jehovah's given me.
And this really helps me not only to be focused
but to have more appreciative prayers
to Jehovah about what he's doing for me now.
We know that Jehovah values our family.